Reluctant to Go but Victory Came Back by Keshinro Mus’ab Moyosore
Our forerunners in faith proved to be the best during a time when they had no power. They literally were humans and were not different from us. The lane has its volume, and the story has its uniqueness. By Allah, if we are to dedicate a year to it, we would miss out a lot of lessons despite counting a thousand of it. One of the greatest histories behind its beauty was the greatest expedition that happened. Even though they least expected it, it was meant to happen out of the decree of Allah.  
Badr was a place 160 miles south of Madinah and 250 miles north of Makkah. This plain was named after a well dug by Badr bn Yakhlud long time ago. Till this day, it had continued to receive thousands of visitors.
History recorded a number of offensive approaches of the Muslims, after all they were humans. They wanted to get back all they had forfeited to their unbelieving families. The story of the "Sariyyatun An-Nakhlah" which happened just about the last day of a sacred month. Another expedition was that of the "Gazwatul Al-'ushayrah" usually called the small Badr. 
The prophet (May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) sent spies to monitor the caravan they lost initially. The foremost of those sent were Talhah bn Ubaydulllah and Sa'id bn Zaid (May Allah have mercy on both of them). This was a large caravan and contained about a thousand camels. The famous scholar of seerah, Ibn Ishaq said, "There is hardly any household except that it had an investment in the caravan." Here, Abdullah bn Umar and Al-Barra bn 'Azib (May Allah have mercy on both of them) came in. The prophet (May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) sent them as spies upon the caravan coming back to Makkah from Syria. They went back to the prophet on the 12th of Ramadan and secretly revealed to him where the caravan was, it's size, the number of armed men guarding it which amounted to about forty. The prophet then said, "We have a mission right now! Whoever has his animal here and any of his weapon, let's go." While they got to the outskirts of Madinah, the prophet (May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) searched through the army and told them, "That is the caravan containing your goods you left in Makkah, go forth and attack it, perhaps Allah will give it to you."  They numbered up to eighty-three of the Muhajiruun, sixty-two of the Aws, and one hundred and seventy of the khazraj, two horses belonging to Az-zubayr bn Awwam and Al-Miqdad bn Al-Aswad and less than a hundred camels. The Prophet (May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) however sent two of them back for being underaged.
On the other hand, Abu Sufyan, asked a Bedouin about their monitors, managed to find out the seeds of dates in a camel dung. He then took an alternative route. Immediately, he sent his fastest rider to Makkah in person of Dumdum bn Amr Al-ghifaari. 
Meanwhile, there was tension in Makkah as different events unfolded. The foremost of those incidents was the dream of A'atikhah. She narrated her ordeal to Al- 'Abbass bn AbdulMuttalib as thus, "I saw a crier coming into Makkah, and he stood at the Kabah shouting, "Oh traitors, meet your death in three days!"Again he climbed the Kabah and said, "Oh traitors, meet your death in three days!" He went to the mountain of Abu Qubays and said again, "Oh traitors, meet your death in three days!" Afterwards, he threw a rock down the mountain and it split and on getting down each piece of the rock found its way to hit every household in Makkah."  This news spread to the extent of getting Abu Jahl angry until finally Dumdum arrived fulfilling the dream of A'atikhah. He called the Quraysh and said, "Oh people of Quraysh, your caravan is being attacked by Muhammad and his army, stand up and save your caravan."
The Quraysh set up the largest army within a day which numbered almost a thousand and three hundred and we're set to leave. Ibn Ishaq said, "No single house hold was left out except they sent a representative."  They all gathered at the Kabah holding onto its clothing saying, "Oh Allah whichever of the two armies is more noble, help them. Oh Allah, whichever of the two armies is more honorable, give them victory. Send your aid upon the better of two tribes." Allah referenced this saying,  
If you [disbelievers] seek the victory - the defeat has come to you. And if you desist [from hostilities], it is best for you; but if you return [to war], We will return, and never will you be availed by your [large] company at all, even if it should increase; and [that is] because Allah is with the believers." Al-Anfal 8:19. Their leader was Abu Jahl. They had over six hundred armors and a hundred horses. They took along their camels and killed ten to eat every day. They had singing girls and cheer leaders. What a number!
Abu Sufyan on the other hand was safe. He sent an emissary to them not to bother again and, their caravan was already safe. Abu Jahl objected to this group and said, "We will camp at Badr for three days to eat, drink and sing. Let the Arab hear about us. Let them know we had the largest army." All efforts to convince this tyrant was to no avail. Some of the groups left and over nine hundred still marched on to Badr. It was obvious none of the groups wanted war. The Muslims also didn't want the war at all. They only wanted to raid the caravan in a mission to revenge against the disbelievers. They even argued after the prophet (May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) gave them assurance of victory. Allah said, 
[It is] just as when your Lord brought you out of your home [for the battle of Badr] in truth, while indeed, a party among the believers were unwilling." Anfal 8:5. 

Arguing with you concerning the truth after it had become clear, as if they were being driven toward death while they were looking on. Anfal 8:6.
[Remember, O believers], when Allah promised you one of the two groups - that it would be yours - and you wished that the unarmed one would be yours.  But Allah intended to establish the truth by His words and to eliminate the disbelievers. Al-Anfal 8:7. 
That He should establish the truth and abolish falsehood, even if the criminals disliked it. Al-Anfal 8:8.
The situation was tense and the prophet himself decided to go and scout. He took along with him Abubakr (may Allah be pleased with him).  After much strategic and persuasive dialogue, an old Beduine informed them thus, "It has reached us that Muhammad and his army have left Madinah on so and so date. If that is true, then they should be camped at Badr right now. The Quraysh have left Makkah on so and so and they are at so and so place now."
While he returned to the army praying to Allah, he managed to find out so much about the army of the Quraysh including those present among their noble men. He said, "By Allah this is the spot so and so will die." He mentioned all the noble men and gave his companions a prediction of their death spot. While they camped at Badr the Prophet May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him asked, "What should we do? He asked this same question several times until Sa'ad bn Muadh spoke on behalf of the Ansar thus, "Perhaps you are waiting for us oh messenger of Allah! We believed in you and affirmed the truth from you. We have given you our promises and our oaths that we will listen and obey you. So, oh messenger of Allah, go forth and do as you please. We will be with you, for I swear by Allah if you are to charge us into the ocean, we will be right behind you perhaps, Allah will show you through our bravery. Go forth upon the blessings of Allah." The Prophet May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him divided the army into three flanks. The middle was headed and flag bearded by Mus'ab bn Umayr. The right flank containing the Muhaajiruun was headed by Ali bn Abi Talib and the left of the Ansar was headed by Sa'ad ban Muadh. May Allah be pleased with them all. The Prophet kept praying throughout the night but a little. Allah sent down a little rain upon them as he said, " 
[Remember] when He overwhelmed you with drowsiness [giving] security from Him and sent down upon you from the sky, rain by which to purify you and remove from you the evil [suggestions] of Satan and to make steadfast your hearts and plant firmly thereby your feet."  Al-Anfal 8:11.
On the 17th of Ramadan, the Prophet May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him arranged his companions in rows to face the Quraysh. As they were in this arrangement, he saw a man galloping in front of the army of the Quraysh and said, "If these people have any good in them, they should listen to that man. If there is anyone who has good in him, it is that man in front." 
The Quraysh on the other hand didn't listen to Utbah bn Rabi'ah. Despite all his warnings to Abu Jahl, he received curses. He persuaded them to call him a coward. He told them not to fight. Until Utbah was blackmailed emotionally and lead himself to his own death during the duel (Mubaarazah). They made gest of Utbah till this moment. Abu Jahl even prayed to Allah, “Oh Allah, whichever of the two groups is evil, has cut the ties of kinship, and has brought more new doctrines, let them meet their death today.” Utbah bn Rabiah called on the prophet to bring them three equals. He was killed in this contest alongside his son, Al Waleed and his brother Shaybah by Ubaydah BN Al-Harith, Ali bn Abu Talib and Hamzah bn AbdulMuttalib respectively. 
The prophet started praying again raising his arm. He said, "Oh Allah, if this group is destroyed, you will never be worshiped on this earth again." He didn't realize his upper garment had fallen. Abubakr came to give him hope before he entered the state of wahy. When the Prophet (May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) came out of this state, he was happy and he said, "Oh Abubakr, receive the good news, for verily Allah's help has come. This is Jubril holding onto the strap of his horse and guiding it through the valley." Allah further explained,َ 
[Remember] when you asked help of your Lord, and He answered you, "Indeed, I will reinforce you with a thousand from the angels, following one another." Al-Anfal 8:9. The Prophet was chanting, "  . The group will be destroyed and they will turn their backs and flee." He held onto a piece of sand, threw it and said,  may these faces be cursed." and Allah cursed it to blind the army of the Quraysh.

The battle began and the prophet said to his companions, "stand up to the garden in which its length is like the heavens and the earth." All of them stood and started fighting fiercely.  Some left what they were doing in order to die on the path of Allah. Famous of them was Umayr bn Al- Hummam who was chewing date. He said, " The time to chew this date is too long to live." He threw it away and fought till he was martyred eventually. The prophet himself may Allah be pleased with him switched between fighting and praying in his tent. Reports showed he was at the front of the army fighting fiercely. His companions would often seek safety around him. He was also reported to have been praying in his tent by Ali (may Allah be pleased with him) till Allah gave them victory over the enemies. 
The angels assisted the believers in completing the job they all started. The help of Allah was true. One of the sahabahs narrated, " I heard a strange voice saying, "go forth Haizun." calling the name of his horse while chasing an enemy. As I raised my sword without bringing it down, the enemy's nose was chopped off."  Similar was argued by Al-Abbass who was captured by an unknown man whom he described as being the most handsome he had ever seen. This is to show that the angels helped the believers as promised.
Here comes the doom of the leaders of the Quraysh. They were disgraced in their respective coins. Abu Jahl was killed by two teenagers as narrated by Abdurahman bn ‘Awf. One of these two teenagers struck him in the leg which was chopped of immediately. The other also struck a blow on him which led to him bleeding to death till Abdullah ibn Mas'uud (may Allah be pleased with him) completed his killing. 
Umayyah on the other hand cowardly surrendered himself to Abdurahman ibn ‘Awf. He offered to pay him money as a ransom, but Bilal couldn't allow this to happen until eventually, he was killed. It was said that he died on pebbles and could not be carried. Whenever he was about to be carried, his body melted. Later he was covered and became the only one among the Quraysh that was not buried. 
Similarly, Abu Ubaydah Amr bn Al-Jarrah narrated thus, “I was being hunted by my own father throughout the battle until I killed my father when he succeeded in finding me. Allah referenced this in the Qur'an to tell him he had a great reward from Him. 
The battle became a catastrophe for the Quraysh. Even shaytan who beautified their plot ran away as Allah said, "
And [remember] when Satan made their deeds pleasing to them and said, "No one can overcome you today from among the people, and indeed, I am your protector." But when the two armies sighted each other, he turned on his heels and said, "Indeed, I am disassociated from you.  Indeed, I see what you do not see; Indeed, I fear Allah. And Allah is severe in penalty." Al-Anfal 8:48.
Seventy of the disbelievers died and seventy-four were taken as prisoners while the Muslims had just fifteen of them killed. What a huge victory as promised by their lord. 
They stayed to bury their dead ones and to ensure the Quraysh did not come back. The Quraysh who died were thrown into a well also. and the prisoners were worthy of what they got. 

Here they were set to leave the war front and the Prophet (May the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him) went to the well, called each of their names and asked, " Have you found what my Lord has promised is true?” 
This is why they became undoubtedly the best of generations, and all of them their reward for aiding the course of Islam. Indeed, they were reluctant to go, but victory came back through their steadfastness.       
Keshinro Mus’ab Moyosore
Legendary Pen

